# Book-Episode-Scanner
## Overview
Scans for existence of new episodes of books on a specific website and downloads them built in .NET Core 3.1. So it requires a relatively recent version of .NET to run.

This is a genericized version of a private version of this solution I'm putting up on GitHub for posterity.
Specific information about the website is removed and dummy data is put in the config file (appsettings.json in the base folder of the solution). This is just a public proof of concept. It won't actually run without the correct config URLs and other values to scan. You also need your own email address information in the config if you want to send email notifications.

This is a simple program for checking for new episodes of books from a specific external website. It gets a token needed for checking for the existence of episodes and then checks the URL for a new episode by incrementing the URL for the previous newest episode by one. It then re-tries until it finds it or else it fetches a new token if the old one expires. After finding it, it will download the episode to your local hard drive. The main purpose of this is to give the user alerts when a new episode of a specific book as soon as it is uploaded to the servers as they don't have a set schedule.

There are also features for logging the fact that it found the episode to a discord bot and sending emails notifications about problems or if the episode has been found. That way the user can leave the program running somewhere and get notifications elsewhere to know it found what it was looking for.

To use, create a new "Scanner" instance in Program.cs with the IDs of whichever book and episode number you'd like to download (these IDs are stored in the constants files) and call the scanner's "Run()" function. The episode number should be the last episode already released and it will scan for the "next" episode by incrementing previous episode number to use for the URL. If not found, the program will retry after a set number of time and will retry until it finds it. I run this directly from Visual Studio, there's no compiled version in this repo. Various features, like logging to discord and sending emails, can be turned on and off by setting values true or false in the config file.

I also recently added a second top-level class called "NewestEpisodeFinder". This works in a similar manner to the Scanner, but only tells the user what the newest released episode is. It doesn't actually download anything. This can be used to save time before running the Scanner and by saving the user the step of going to the website to find the newest Episode ID manually. Though it still requires them to go there for the Book ID.

## Possible Future Updates
This is generally just used by me, so I didn't bother to add a lot of user-friendly stuff. So there's no UI outside of the console output and you need to manually add constants for a new book or episode you want to look up. The constants are meant to work as a kind of scratchpad so you know what you looked up last time. If I were to expand this in the future I could do something like add a SQLite database and use tables rather than a big list of constants and automatically append to the tables when new episodes come out. I could also make a UI that shows things like the actual names of the books and episodes and various other information and add UI elements like dropdowns to choose what to download and to check for new, already-released episodes in addition to running the scanner. I didn't go that far because I'm probably the only one using this and primarily the only purpose of this is the scanning for new episodes part.
